Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
Some fellow practitioners, who are new to the Dharma
and haven't researched much yet, have
questions about making offerings to the
Three Jewels. One question came to mind: "I
just watched a video where you talked
about the Three Jewels as the Field of Merit of the World.
Why do offerings to the Three Jewels bring so
much merit and blessings?
How great are the merits of the Three Jewels?"
Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners in the Quoc Hoang
Loc Hoa meditation club, we often
organize activities related to the Three Jewels, such as serving
alms at meditation retreats,
doing many other things, printing and distributing
scriptures, making offerings to the Three Jewels to build
temples, and making offerings to the Three Jewels to support the
monks – many aspects. Here, we
must understand the word "offering." Offering means
providing and nourishing. So,
how can offering to the Buddha Jewels be considered providing and nourishing for the
Buddha? The
Buddha has passed away, so there's nothing left to provide
and nourish for him. If we keep offering to the
Three Jewels, which includes the Three
Jewels, then it includes the Buddha Jewels. But now that the Buddha has
passed away, how can we call it providing?  To
give and nurture the Buddha,
simply put, we can make
offerings to paint Buddha statues
for people to worship, but that is
not a true offering to the
Buddha. The Buddha
is enlightenment. For example, if I were listening, I
might ask, "The Buddha is enlightenment,
but statues made of bronze,
wood,
or cement—are they really enlightened? Why
call them Buddha statues? They are just
Buddha statues." Then I would say, "I make offerings to the
Three Jewels, meaning I must have the Buddha within me to
have merit. A Buddha statue isn't an
enlightened person; it's just wood and
stone. How can that be called the Buddha?"
Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners,
we must understand this more deeply. When
we direct our minds towards the Buddha,
even if it's just to paint a
statue, our minds directed towards
enlightenment will bring the Buddha within us,
guiding us towards
our own enlightenment. That is, we direct our minds towards the
Buddha. Why do we direct our minds towards the
Buddha? Because we see the Buddha as a
noble and enlightened being.  We want to be
like the Buddha, so we are
cultivating
our inherent enlightenment. Although each of us
possesses the potential for enlightenment, ignorance obscures it with greed.
Now,
we cultivate this potential for enlightenment,
making it manifest and
diminishing it. Therefore, we call it
enlightenment, opening up our enlightenment. Opening up our inherent enlightenment means
we are striving towards enlightenment.
Even if we only perform a single ritual to the Buddha
or make offerings
to paint a Buddha statue,
the intention behind such offerings
is to direct our hearts
towards the Buddha, to feel reverence and respect for the Buddha who attained
enlightenment, and to wish for
everyone to revere the Buddha who attained enlightenment. That's why we paint
Buddha statues. Therefore, making offerings
to paint Buddha statues is like
sowing a seed of enlightenment, guiding our hearts
towards our own enlightenment, showing reverence for the enlightenment
of the Buddhas, and
returning to our own inherent enlightenment.
That's what we call offering.  We
provide sustenance for the
Buddha's presence in the world and for cultivating
our own enlightenment, allowing it to
unfold. What about providing sustenance for the
Dharma? We go to the temple and make
offerings to the temple to have
Buddhist scriptures printed or distributed. Nowadays,
Buddhist scriptures are also available in paper form, as well as
in video and radio formats.
These offerings are used to purchase
media equipment
to spread the Buddha's teachings, which is
also a way to provide
sustenance for the Dharma. Furthermore,
we make offerings so that people who come to the
temple can hear the Buddha's teachings.
People come here to listen to the Buddha's teachings,
and the Buddha's teachings are transmitted from the
scriptures to people themselves. This is also a way to
provide sustenance for the Dharma. And
we provide sustenance
for the Sangha (monastic community) by providing for the monks so they have the
Fourfold Path (of practice) to practice the Buddha's teachings,
and then they
teach and encourage
us to practice them.
This is called offering to the Three Jewels, dear fellow
practitioners.  Why is it said that offering to the
Three Jewels brings much merit? Because we are
providing for and
nurturing our own enlightenment, and we are
providing for and nurturing the cause for
people to come to the temple to worship the Buddha statue.
This means that people are also directing their minds
towards enlightenment, so the merit is
great. We are providing
for and nurturing the Dharma, that is, the Buddha's
teachings, so that the
merit is great because the Buddha's teachings
encourage people to abandon evil and do good.
Therefore, the teachings that encourage us to abandon
evil and do good are very precious, benefiting the
many, benefiting the world, and
bringing happiness to the world. Therefore,
this providing and nurturing is very
precious, and the merit is great
because people hear the Buddha's teachings, they
do good deeds, they abandon
evil deeds, so the world becomes
happy and peaceful. That is why
providing and nurturing the
good teachings brings much merit
because that merit brings happiness to the world. Offering to the Sangha
brings much merit.
Monks are the ones who uphold the Dharma,
maintain the Buddha's teachings, and make
sentient beings believe that the Buddha's teachings
lead to happiness and peace. Therefore, offering support and
nurturing to truly
practicing monks brings great merit. We also
provide for and nurture those who always do
good for the world, and naturally, that brings
great merit. That's why the Buddha
is precious, the Dharma is precious, the Sangha is
precious, and providing for and nurturing the
Three Jewels will bring great merit, my dear fellow practitioners.
You asked further about the great merit of the Three
Jewels. In the
video "What is Taking Refuge in the Three Jewels? Why
should we rely on the Three Jewels?", I've already
explained part of it. You can find it
there to see. The great merit of the Three Jewels
is because as long as they exist in the world, they help sentient beings
return
to their inherent enlightened nature, return to their
good nature, and abandon their evil nature, bringing
happiness and peace to the world. Therefore, the
merit of the Three Jewels is immense, bringing
peace and happiness to the
world, reducing suffering, and benefiting
sentient beings.  Alleviating suffering and freeing sentient beings from suffering
is the merit of the Three Jewels.
May you all diligently study the Dharma and uphold the
precepts to alleviate suffering and attain peace and happiness.
[Music]
[Applause]